.TH "psmq_building" "7" "11 February 2019 (v0.1.0)" "bofc.pl"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B psmq_building
- information about building
.B psmq
library.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B psmq
is targeted mainly for small embedded systems which do not have advanced IPC
like unix domain sockets.
It doesn't have much usecases (if any) on big OSes like
.B Linux
- there are far more advanced solutions for such systems.
.B psmq
library cares mainly about memory and runtime safety.
It can be build and run on every
.B UNIX
though to make application developemt and testing much easier - you can write
and test your app on
.B UNIX
system and then just move it to embedded posix-compliant system without changes.
.PP
To avoid dynamic memory allocation as much as possible, most options are set
during compile time, and since this is mainly for embedded systems - it's not a
problem.
.SH "PASSING SETTINGS"
.PP
Depending on how you want to compile this software, there are a few ways to
define settings.
.SS AUTOTOOLS
.PP
If you build for
.B UNIX
system, it's the easiest and best way to install
.B psmq
library and programs.
Settings are passed to
.I configure
script as environment variables like that
.PP
.nf
    PSMQ_MAX_CLIENTS=128 PSMQ_TOPIC_MAX=32 PSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX=64 ./configure
.fi
.PP
And of course after that, there is standard "make" and "make install".
You're done.
.SS "COMPILER DEFINITIONS"
.PP
If you integrate
.B psmq
into bare metal embedded system without OS, you can just define options.
How you do it heavily depends on your build system.
For cmake, you could use
.PP
.nf
    add_definitions(-DPSMQ_MAX_CLIENTS=128 -DPSMQ_TOPIC_MAX=32)
.fi
.PP
If you are using "make" based build system, you would use something along the
lines
.PP
.nf
    CFLAGS += -DPSMQ_MAX_CLIENTS=128
    CFLAGS += -DPSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX=64
    CFLAGS += -DPSMQ_TOPIC_MAX=32
.fi
.SS "CONFIG FILE"
.PP
You can also define all of those values in
.B psmq-config.h
file.
That file should be directly accessible by compiler - every source file includes
this file this way:
.PP
.nf
    #ifdef HAVE_CONFIG_H
    #   include "psmq-config.h"
    #endif
.fi
.PP
You also must define
.BR HAVE_CONFIG_H .
To define options, you just do classic
.B C
definitions
.PP
.nf
    #define PSMQ_MAX_CLIENTS 128
    #define PSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX 64
    #define PSMQ_TOPIC_MAX 32
.fi
.SH "COMPILATION OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR PSMQ_MAX_CLIENTS\  (int)
This defines how many clients single broker process will support.
Broker will return error for clients that want to register to it and there are
already max clients connected.
.B psmqd
will alocate client array with static storage duration that is about 12 bytes
(may vary depending on architecture) for each client.
.TP
.BR PSMQ_TOPIC_MAX\  (int)
Defines maximum length any topic can be.
That includes first \'/\' character, but does not include terminating null
character.
So if this is set to 3, then topics "/0", "/01" will be valid, but "/012" will
be too long.
To avoid unnecessary padding, set this value to round value minus one, that is
15 instead of 16, or 127 instead of 128.
It's because
.B psmq
adds +1 for string termination character, so if you set this to 16, array size
will be effectively 17 and that may lead to padding.
.TP
.BR PSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX\  (int)
Defines maximum size of payload that can be sent via
.BR psmq .
.PP
Both
.B PSMQ_TOPIC_MAX
and
.B PSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX
have direct impact on size of internal message structures that are copied each
time message is sent.
If you set
.B PSMQ_PAYLOAD_MAX
to, let's say 20, and you are sending message with payload that takes only 2
byte, then 20 bytes will get copied anyway.
Same rule applies to topics.
.PP
Broker will create single mqueue with with mq_size set to
.B sizeof(struct psmq_msg_pub)
and each client will create single mqueue with mq size set to
.BR sizeof(struct psmq_msg) .
Both of these values are printed during broker startup.
.TP
.BR PSMQ_NO_SIGNALS\  (bool)
Signals were implemented mainly for full-fledged UNIXes, but many embedded
simply does not implement signals. If you want to use
.B psmq
on such system, define this to 1. It is not possible to set this when building
with autotools. C'mon, if you can use autotools you surely have signals.
.SH DEPENDENCIES
.PP
Broker needs
.B embedlog
for logging.
It can be downloaded from
.B https://embedlog.kurwinet.pl
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR psmqd (1),
.BR psmq-pub (1),
.BR psmq-sub (1),
.BR psmq_cleanup (3),
.BR psmq_disable_threaded (3),
.BR psmq_enable (3),
.BR psmq_init (3),
.BR psmq_publish (3),
.BR psmq_receive (3),
.BR psmq_subscribe (3),
.BR psmq_timedreceive (3),
.BR psmq_timedreceive_ms (3),
.BR psmq_unsubscribe (3),
.BR psmq_building (7),
.BR psmq_overview (7).
