.TH "psmq_init" "3" "19 May 2021 (v0.2.0)" "bofc.pl"
.SH NAME
.PP
.B psmq_init
- initializes
.B psmq
object and initializes connection with the broker.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.BI "#include <psmq.h>"
.PP
.BI "int psmq_init(struct psmq *" psmq ", const char *" brokername ", \
const char *" mqname ", int " maxmsg ")"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Function initializes passed
.I psmq
object, opens
.I brokername
mqueue for writing, and creates
.I mqname
mqueue for reading with
.IR maxmsg .
After successfull initializations of mqueue objects, function will register
with the
.I brokername
and will send him
.IR mqname .
.I mqname
mqueue is used by the broker to send messages back to client.
.PP
Both
.I mqname
and
.I brokername
must start with \'/\' character (regardless of OS in use) and full name format
is OS dependent.
For example,
.B QNX
allows names with multiple \'/\', like "/name/of/mq", but
.B Linux
allows only one slash - at the beginning, so "/name" is only acceptable
there.
Refer to your system's manual about mqueue for details.
.PP
.I maxmsg
defines how much messages can be queued in
.I mqname
before broker will start droping messages.
If this value is not big enough, and your program is not quick enough to
process incoming data from queue, when queue gets full, broker will drop
incoming messages until there is place in the queue again.
Lost packets are lost though.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
.PP
When all memory has been allocated properly and broker sends back register
confirmation, 0 is returned.
Else -1 is returned and appropriate errno is set.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
This eror is returned when at least one of these are true:
.RS 4
*
.I psmq
is
.B NULL
.br
*
.I brokername
is
.B NULL
.br
*
.I brokername
doesn't start with \'/\'
.br
*
.I mqname
is
.B NULL
.br
*
.I mqname
doesn't start with \'/\'
.br
*
.I maxmsg
is less than 1
.br
*
.I maxmsg
is greater than maximum value supported by OS.
.RE
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
Length of the
.I mqname
is too big and cannot fit into payload that is sent to broker upon registration.
This value is set during compile time, check
.BR psmq_building (7)
for details.
.TP
.B ENOENT
Specified
.I brokername
doesn't exist.
Either provided name is wrong, or broker is not running.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
Broker is full of clients and won't accept any new connections until any of
the clients disconnects.
.SH "BUG REPORTING"
.PP
Please, report all bugs to "Michał Łyszczek <michal.lyszczek@bofc.pl>"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
.BR psmqd (1),
.BR psmq-pub (1),
.BR psmq-sub (1),
.BR psmq_cleanup (3),
.BR psmq_init (3),
.BR psmq_publish (3),
.BR psmq_receive (3),
.BR psmq_subscribe (3),
.BR psmq_timedreceive (3),
.BR psmq_timedreceive_ms (3),
.BR psmq_unsubscribe (3),
.BR psmq_building (7),
.BR psmq_overview (7).
